1. Natural sciences	1.1 Mathematics	Pure mathematics, Applied mathematics; Statistics and probability;
1. Natural sciences	1.2 Computer and information sciences	Computer sciences, information science and bioinformatics 
1. Natural sciences	1.3 Physical science	Atomic, molecular and chemical physics (physics of atoms and molecules including collision, interaction with radiation; magnetic resonances; Mossbauer effect); Condensed matter physics (including formerly solid state physics superconductivity); Particles and fields physics; Nuclear physics; Fluids and plasma physics (including surface physics); Optics (including laser optics and quantum optics). Acoustics; Astronomy (including astrophysics, space science);
1. Natural sciences	1.4 Chemical sciences	Organic chemistry; Inorganic and nuclear chemistry; Physical chemistry, Polymer science, Electrochemistry (dry cells, batteries, the cells, corrosion metals, electrolysis); Colloid chemistry; Analytical Chemistry;
1. Natural sciences	1.5 Earth and related Environmental sciences	Geosciences, multidisciplinary; Mineralogy; Palaeontology; Geochemistry and geophysics; Physical geography; Geology; Volcanology; Environmental sciences (social aspects to be 5.7);   Meteorology and atmospheric sciences; climatic research;   Oceanography. Hydrology, Water resources;
1. Natural sciences	1.6 Biological science,	Cell biology, Microbiology; Virology; Biochemistry and molecular biology; Biochemical research methods; Mycology; Biophysics;   Genetics and heredity (medical genetics to be3); reproductive biology (medical aspects to be 3); developmental biology; heredity reproductive biology ; developmental biology;   Plant sciences, botany;   Zoology. Ornithology. Entomology. Behavioural sciences biology;   Marine biology,freshwater biology, immunology; Ecology; Biodiversity conservation   Biology (theoretical, mathematical, thermal, cryobiology, biological rhythm), Evolutionary biology: other biological topics:
2. Engineering and technology 	2.1 Civil engineering	Civil engineering; Architecture engineering; Construction engineering, Municipal and structural engineering; Transport engineering;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.2 Electrical engineering, Electronic engineering, Informationengineering	Electrical and electronic engineering; Robotics and automatic control; Automation and control systems; Communication engineering and systems; telecommunications; Computer hardware and architecture;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.3 Mechanical engineering	Mechanical engineering; Applied mechanics; Thermodynamics;  Aerospace engineering; Nuclear related engineering; (nuclear physics to be 1.3);  Audio engineering, reliability analysis;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.4 Chemical engineering	Chemical engineering (plants, products); Chemical process engineering;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.5 Materials engineering	Materials engineering; Ceramics; Coating and films; Composites (including laminates, reinforced plastics, cements, combined natural and synthetic fiber fabrics; filled composites); Paper and wood; textiles; including synthetic dyes, colors, fibers; (nanoscale materials to be 2.10; biomaterials to be 2.9);
2. Engineering and technology 	2.6 Medical engineering	Medical engineering; Medical laboratory technology (including laboratory samples analysis; diagnostic technologies); (Biomaterials to be 2.9 [physical characteristics of living material as related to medical implants, devices, sensors]);
2. Engineering and technology 	2.7 Environmental engineering	Environmental and geological engineering, geotechnics; Petroleum engineering, (fuel, oils), Energy and fuels; Remote sensing; Mining and mineral processing; Marine engineering, sea vessels; Ocean engineering;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.8 Environmental biotechnology	Environmental biotechnology. bioremediation, diagnostic biotechnologies (DNA chips and biosensing devices) in environmental management; environmental biotechnology related ethics;
2. Engineering and technology 	2.9 Industrial biotechnology	Industrial biotechnology, bioprocessing technologies (industrial processes relying on biological agents to drive the process) biocatalysis, fermentation; byproducts (products that are manufactured using biological material as feedstock) biomaterials, bioplastics, bio fuels, bio-derived bulk and fine chemicals. bio-derived novel materials:
2. Engineering and technology 	2.10 Nano-technology	Nano-materials [production and properties];  Nano-processes [applications on nano-scale); (biomaterials to be 2.9)
2. Engineering and technology 	2.11 Other engineering and technologies	Food and beverages;  Other engineering and technologies
3. Medical and Health sciences	3.1 Basic medicine	Anatomy and morphology (plant science to be I.6); Human genetics; Immunology; Neurosciences (including psychophysiology); Pharmacology and pharmacy; Medicinal Chemistry; Toxicology; Physiology (including cytology), Pathology;
3. Medical and Health sciences	3.2 Clinical medicine	Andrology, Obstetrics and gynaecology; Paediatrics; Cardiac and Cardiovascular systems; Peripheral vascular disease; Hematology;&nbsp;Respiratory systems; Critical care medicine and Emergency medicine; Anaesthesiology; Orthopaedics; Surgery; Radiology, nuclear medicine and medical imaging; Transplantation; Dentistry, oral surgery and medicine; Dermatology and venereal diseases; Allergy; Itheurnatology; Endocrinology and metabolism (including diabetes, hormones); Castroemerology and Impatology; Urology and nephnology; Oncology; Ophthalmology; Otorhinolaryngology; Psychiatry; Clinical neurology; Geriatrics and gerontology; General and internal medicine; other clinical medicine subjects; Integrative and complementary medicine (alternative practice systems);
3. Medical and Health sciences	3.3 Health Sciences	Health care sciences and services (including hospital administration, health care financing); Health policy and services;  Nursing; Nutrition, Dietetics;  Public and environmental health; Tropical medicine; Parasitology; Infectious diseases; Epidemiology;  Occupational health, Sport and Fitness sciences;  Social biomedical sciences (includes family planning, sexual health, psycho-oncology, political and social effects of biomedical research); Medical ethics; Substance abuse
3. Medical and Health sciences	3.4 Medical biotechnology	Health-related biotechnology; Technologies involving the manipulation of cells, tissues, organs or the whole organism (assisted reproduction); Technologies involving identifying the functioning of DNA, proteins and enzymes and how they influence the onset of disease and maintenance of wellbeing (gene-based diagnostics and therapeutic interventions (pharmacogenomics, gene-based&nbsp;therapeutics); biomaterials (as related b medical implants, devices. sensors); medical biotechnolo0 related ethics;
3. Medical and Health sciences	3.5 Other medical sciences	Forensic science  Other medical sciences
4. Agricultural sciences	4.1 Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries	Agriculture; Forestry; Fishery ; Soil science; Horticulture, viticulture; Agronomy, plant breeding and plant protection; (Agricultural biotechnology to be 4.4)
4. Agricultural sciences	4.2&nbsp;Animal and Dairy science	Animal and dairy science (Animal biotechnology to be 4.4)Animal and dairy science  Husbandry; Pets;
4. Agricultural sciences	4.4 Agricultural biotechnology	Agricultural biotechnology and food biotechnology; GM technology (crops and livestock), livestock cloning, marker assisted selection, diagnostics (DNA chips and biosensing devices fro the early/accurate detection of diseases) biomass feedstock production technologies, biopharming; agricultural biotechnology related ethics;
5. Social sciences	5.1 Psychology	Psychology (including human - machine relations)  Psychology. special (including therapy for Feinting, speech, hearing, visual and other physical and mental disabilities);
5. Social sciences	5.2 Economies and Business	Economics, Econometrics; Industrial relationEconomics, Econometrics; Industrial relation  Business and Management;
5. Social sciences	5.3 Educational sciences	Education, general; including training, pedagogy, didactics;  Education, special (to gifted persons, those with learning disabilities);
5. Social sciences	5.4 Sociology	Sociology; Demography; Anthropology, Ethnology,  Social topics (Women's and gender studies; Social issues; Family studies, Social work)
5. Social sciences	5.5 Law	Law, criminology, penology:
5. Social sciences	5.6 Political science	Political science; public administration; organization theory;
5. Social sciences	5.7 Social and economic geography	Environmental sciences (social aspects); Cultural and Economic geography; Urban studies (Planning and development); Transport planning and social aspects of transport (transport engineering to be 2.11);
5. Social sciences	5.8 Media and communications	Journalism; Information science (social aspects); library science; media and socio-cultural communication;
5. Social sciences	5.9 Other social sciences	Social sciences interdisciplinary;  Other social sciences
6. Humanities	6.1 History and Archaeology	History (history of science and technology to be 6.3, history of specific sciences to be under respective headings); Archaeology;
6. Humanities	6.2 Languages and Literature	General language studies; Specific languages; General literature studies; Literary theory; Specific literatures; Linguistics
6. Humanities	6.3 Philosophy, Ethics and Religion	Philosophy, History and philosophy or science and technology;  Ethics (except ethics related to specific subfields); Theology; Religious studies,
6. Humanities	6.4 Arts (arts, history of arts. performing arts, music)	Arts, Art history; Architectural design; Performing arts studies (Musicology, 'Theater science, Dramaturgy); Folklore studios;  Studies on Film, Radio and Television;